Integrate RainbowKit into a Tanssi demo apchain (#187)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit.md

---

> title: How to Add RainbowKit to a Tanssi Appchain 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to Add RainbowKit to a Tanssi EVM Appchain 
```

> description: Learn how to integrate RainbowKit into an appchain created with Tanssi. This guide takes the Tanssi demo appchain as an example to illustrate the steps in the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to integrate RainbowKit with an EVM-compatible appchain deployed through Tanssi, making adding a great wallet experience to your dApp easy. 
```

---

> # Integrate RainbowKit into a Tanssi Appchain 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Integrate RainbowKit with a Tanssi Appchain 
```

RainbowKit bundles together multiple tools to simplify adding wallet connections to a dApp:

- [Wagmi](https://wagmi.sh/){target=\_blank} - a React Hooks library for interacting with Ethereum accounts, wallets, contracts, transactions, signing, ENS, and more
- [viem](https://viem.sh/){target=\_blank} - TypeScript interface which provides low-level stateless primitives for interacting with Ethereum
- [WalletConnect](https://walletconnect.com/){target=\_blank} - adds encrypted connections and enhanced UX experiences like connecting a mobile wallet by scanning a QR code
- [TanStack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/framework/react/overview){target=\_blank} - helps manage and update server state within the application

This guide explains how to add RainbowKit to a dApp running on top of a Tanssi-powered appchain using the CLI, along with options for further customizing the integration.

## Quick Start {: #quick-start }

> To start a new project, RainbowKit can scaffold a project using the CLI, combining RainbowKit and Wagmi in a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs){target=\_blank} application. Use the preferred package manager to run the CLI command and start the project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a new project, RainbowKit can scaffold a project using the CLI, combining RainbowKit and Wagmi in a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs){target=\_blank} application. Use your preferred package manager to run the CLI command and start the project:
```

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    npm run dev 
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    pnpm run dev
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    yarn dev
    ```

The starting screen should look like this:

![Scaffolded RainbowKit project landing page](/images/builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit/rainbowkit-1.webp)

Open the project in a code editor and examine the directory and file structure, paying particular attention to the `wagmi.ts` file. This file allows configuration of the chains included in the list of networks that users can connect to via the dApp.

Since the [demo EVM appchain](https://apps.tanssi.network/demo/){target=\_blank} is a custom appchain on Tanssi, it cannot be imported directly from `wagmi/chains`. Instead, define the chain manually in the `wagmi.ts` file. For example, if the appchain uses the Tanssi demo appchain or another EVM-compatible chain, the necessary configurations must be added manually.

Here is the configuration for the demo EVM appchain on Tanssi:

=== "Demo EVM Appchain"
```js title="src/wagmi.ts"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/wagmi.ts'
```

> To add support for the demo EVM appchain on Tanssi, update `wagmi.ts` as shown above. The next section explains how to generate the `projectId` value for WalletConnect in the next section.

Reviewer: Rephrase this: "The next section explains how to generate the `projectId` value for WalletConnect in the next section."

## Manual Setup 

> To integrate RainbowKit into an existing React application, follow the manual setup. The next sections outline how to install and import the necessary dependencies, configure chain connections to support the Dancebox demo EVM appchain on Tanssi, and make RainbowKit functionality available to users in the dApp. The setup will also include steps to specify which chain the **Connect Wallet** button should connect to by default and how to customize the RainbowKit theme to fit the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections will walk you through the steps to integrate RainbowKit into an existing React application, such as installing and importing the necessary dependencies, configuring chain connections, and making the RainbowKit functionality available to users in the dApp. The setup will also include steps to specify which chain the **Connect Wallet** button should connect to by default and how to customize the RainbowKit theme to fit the project. This guide is based on the Tanssi [demo EVM appchain](https://apps.tanssi.network/demo){target=\_blank}, but can be adapted for your own Tanssi EVM appchain by changing the RPC URL parameter.
```

### Checking Prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

> Before proceeding, ensure the following prerequisites are met:

Reviewer: Add a prerequisite "A Tanssi EVM-compatible appchain"

> - An existing dApp built with [React](https://react.dev/){target=\_blank} and manual setup will be used to connect to a wallet via RainbowKit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An existing dApp built with [React](https://react.dev/){target=\_blank} and manual setup will be used to connect to a wallet via RainbowKit
```

- The [RainbowKit examples repository](https://github.com/rainbow-me/rainbowkit/tree/main/examples){target=\_blank} includes templates for multiple React frameworks
    
 - To follow this guide, visit [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs){target=\_blank} and follow the **Automatic Installation** instructions, selecting Typescript and the App Router options during setup 

> - The wallet being used must support custom networks, as the Tanssi demo EVM appchain will be added manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The wallet must support custom networks, as the Tanssi demo EVM appchain will be added manually
```

- A WalletConnect `projectId` - every dApp relying on WalletConnect is required to have an associated `projectId`. It is free to create an account,  and an ID can be generated instantly.

    To obtain a WalletConnect `projectId`:

    1. Visit [WalletConnect Cloud](https://cloud.walletconnect.com/){target=\_blank}
    2. On the **Projects** page, select **Create** 
    3. Add the project information (leaving the **Homepage URL** blank if the dApp is not deployed)
    4. Select the **AppKit** SDK
    5. Select a coding environment or platform (React is used in this guide)

>     6. Locate the `projectId` in the left menu. or find it in the **Get started** code snippet of WalletConnect Quickstart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    6. Locate the `projectId` in the left menu. or find it in the **Get started** code snippet of WalletConnect Quickstart
```

 
### Getting Started {: #getting-started }

Ensure that the project is in the root directory before proceeding, then install RainbowKit and its peer dependencies:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install @rainbow-me/rainbowkit wagmi viem@2.x @tanstack/react-query
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm install @rainbow-me/rainbowkit wagmi viem@2.x @tanstack/react-query
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add @rainbow-me/rainbowkit wagmi viem@2.x @tanstack/react-query
    ```
These packages provide the core functionality for wallet connections (RainbowKit), Ethereum interactions (wagmi and viem), and state management (TanStack Query).

Next, start the development server to create a local dApp instance:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm run dev
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn dev
    ```

After starting the server, open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000){target=\_blank},  to view the Next.js application in the browser.

> To test the RainbowKit connection, the MetaMask app can be used. Ensure that the Dancebox appchain is connected in the MetaMask wallet.

Reviewer: Change every "Dancebox appchain" to "Tansso demo EVM appchain" in every occurrence

To add the Tanssi demo EVM appchain to MetaMask:

1. Open MetaMask and go to Settings > Networks > Add Network.
2. Input the following information:

>    - Network Name: `Demo EVM Chain`

Reviewer: The parameters are not rendering as a point two sublist

   - RPC URL: `https://fraa-dancebox-3001-rpc.a.dancebox.tanssi.network`
   - Chain ID: 5678
   - Currency Symbol: TANGO
   - Block Explorer URL: `https://fra-dancebox-3001-bs.a.dancebox.tanssi.network/`

> For detailed instructions on connecting MetaMask to the Dancebox appchain, refer to the [Tanssi Documentation](https://docs.tanssi.network/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/metamask/#connect-metamask-to-evm-appchain){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: This is the Tanssi documentation, I'd change it to "refer to a -meaningful name of the article or section within the article-"

### Add the Connect Button

RainbowKit offers a `ConnectButton` component, which renders the **Connect** and **Disconnect** buttons and UI elements for switching chains. This example imports the `ConnectButton` into the existing `page.tsx` file for simplicity, though it can also be added to an element like a **Header** or **Navbar** to appear at the top of every page. Update the code in `page.tsx` as follows:

```ts title="page.tsx"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/pages.tsx'
```

Once the development server is running, the home page will display a **Connect Wallet** button. Clicking this button will open the RainbowKit modal, providing options to either connect an existing wallet or get a new one. Select **MetaMask** and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the connection process.

The current configuration defaults to connecting to Demo EVM Chain and displays the current network, the native token balance, and the connected wallet address. If multiple networks are supported, selecting the arrow next to it will open the Switch Networks modal. This allows users to select another network and authorize the change.

> Once connected, users will see their TANGO token balance and wallet address.

Reviewer: Use the variable instead of TANGO

## Customize RainbowKit

> RainbowKit simplifies the complexities of managing wallet connections while offering various options for customizing UI and functionality to fit the needs of a dApp. A full list of customization options can be found in the RainbowKit [documentation](https://www.rainbowkit.com/docs/introduction){target=\_blank}. This section covers customizing the **Connect Wallet** button to connect initially to Demo EVM Chain and render it in a custom color. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RainbowKit simplifies the complexities of managing wallet connections while offering various options for customizing UI and functionality to fit the needs of a dApp. A full list of customization options can be found in the RainbowKit [documentation](https://www.rainbowkit.com/docs/introduction){target=\_blank}. This section covers customizing the **Connect Wallet** button to connect initially to the Demo EVM Chain and render it in a custom color. 
```

### Set Custom Initial Chain

> By default, RainbowKit connects to the first chain supplied to Wagmi in the config. The order of chains listed in `wagmi.ts` will match the order displayed in the **Switch Networks** modal. To ensure that the Tanssi demo EVM appchain is always the default connection, simply move it to the top of the chain list. However, relying solely on this default behavior might not be the most reliable option.

Reviewer: Relying - reliable, use a synonym? or simply "might not be the best option" ?

```Ts title="providers.tsx"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/providers.tsx'
```

By setting `initialChain={demoEVMChain}`, RainbowKit will attempt to connect to the Tanssi demo EVM appchain first whenever the **Connect Wallet** button is clicked.

### Define Custom Theme Colors

RainbowKit provides three built-in theme functions: `lightTheme`, `darkTheme`, and `midnightTheme`. These functions return a theme object that can be passed to the `RainbowKitProvider` prop `theme` to customize colors, border radius, font stack, and overlay blur. Update `providers.tsx` with the following code and ensure that `darkTheme` is added to the `@rainbow-me/rainbowkit` import statement for the changes to apply correctly. After customizing the initial chain and theme, the `providers.tsx` file will look like this:

```js title="providers.tsx"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/providers2.tsx'
```
This configuration sets a dark theme with custom properties:

> - `accentColor`: The primary highlight color. In this example, Tanssi's accent color (#189B9B) is used, but it can be adjusted to match the branding of the dApp.

Reviewer: No period in list elements

- `accentColorForeground`: The text color used on top of the accent color.
- `borderRadius`: Controls the roundness of UI elements. Options are 'none', 'small', 'medium', or 'large'.
- `fontStack`: Defines the fonts used. 'system' uses the default system fonts.
- `overlayBlur`: The blur effect applied to the background when modals are open.

> !!! tip

Reviewer: Tip content must be indented

    Experiment with different theme functions (`lightTheme`, `darkTheme`, `midnightTheme`) and color combinations to find the best match for the visual style of the dApp.

## Handle Disconnections

To disconnect MetaMask from the dApp and reconnect for testing purposes, two methods can be used to complete this process.  

### Disconnect from DApp {: #disconnect-from-dapp }

RainbowKit includes a **Disconnect** button out of the box. To open the modal, select the arrow next to the account number. Click the **Disconnect** button. At this point, the **Connect Wallet** option will reappear, and the account information will no longer be visible.

![Built in Disconnect button](/images/builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit/rainbowkit-2.webp)

### Disconnect from MetaMask  {: #disconnect-from-metamask }

Some users prefer to disconnect from their wallet rather than use a button within a dApp. To use this method: 

1. Select the MetaMask extension in the browser to open the modal
2. Select the three dots in the upper right corner of the MetaMask modal
3. Select **Connected sites**
4. Review the list of sites connected to the wallet

> 5. Select **Disconnect** for each site that should be disconnect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Disconnect** for each site that should be disconnected
```

## Final Result {: #final-result }

> The **Connect Wallet** button on the home page should now render in the color specified for `accentColor` during theme customization. After selecting **Connect Wallet**, the same accent color will be displayed in the modal. MetaMask can be chosen, and signing the transaction will authorize the connection. The Tanssi demo EVM appchain will appear as the connected network, along with the TANGO token balance, without the need for manual network switching.

Reviewer: TANGO -> Use variable

---
title: Add RainbowKit to a Tanssi demo appchain 

> description: Learn how to integrate RainbowKit into your appchain created with Tanssi. In this example, we will use the Tanssi demo appchain to guide you through the process.

Reviewer 2: No use of we

---

# Integrate RainbowKit into a Tanssi demo appchain 

## Introduction 

> [RainbowKit](https://www.rainbowkit.com/docs/introduction){target=\_blank} RainbowKit is a React library that adds wallet connection capabilities to a dApp. It supports numerous wallets and enables features such as switching connection chains, ENS address resolution, and balance display out-of-the-box. RainbowKit offers customization options for all EVM-compatible chains, making it possible to easily connect wallets to your appchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[RainbowKit](https://www.rainbowkit.com/docs/introduction){target=\_blank} is a React library that adds wallet connection capabilities to a dApp. It supports numerous wallets and enables features such as switching connection chains, ENS address resolution, and balance display out-of-the-box. RainbowKit offers customization options for all EVM-compatible chains, making it possible to connect wallets to your appchain easily.
```

    ```
=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn create @rainbow-me/rainbowkit
    ```

The script will prompt you for a project name, generate a new directory with the boilerplate starter code, and install all required dependencies. 

--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit/cli-quickstart.md'

You can now navigate to the project directory, start the development server, and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000){target=\_blank} to view your project locally:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    npm run dev 
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    pnpm run dev
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    cd INSERT_PROJECT_NAME
    yarn dev
    ```

Your starting screen should look like this:

![Scaffolded RainbowKit project landing page](/images/builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit/rainbowkit-1.webp)

Open the project in your code editor and take a look at the directory and file structure, paying particular attention to the `wagmi.ts` file. This file is where you can configure which chains are included in the list of networks that users can connect to through your dApp.

> Since Dancebox is a custom appchain on Tanssi, it cannot be imported directly from `wagmi/chains`. Instead, you need to manually define the chain in the `wagmi.ts` file. For example, if your appchain uses the Tanssi demo appchain (Dancebox) or another EVM-compatible chain, you can add the necessary configurations manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the Dancebox EVM demo appchain is a custom appchain on Tanssi, it cannot be imported directly from `wagmi/chains`. Instead, you must manually define the chain in the `wagmi.ts` file. For example, if your appchain uses the Tanssi demo appchain (Dancebox) or another EVM-compatible chain, you can add the necessary configurations manually.
```

Here is the configuration for the Dancebox demo appchain on Tanssi:

> === "Dancebox Demo Appchain"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== "Dancebox Demo EVM Appchain"
```

```js title="src/wagmi.ts"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/wagmi.ts'
```

> To add support for the Dancebox appchain on Tanssi, update `wagmi.ts` as shown above. You will learn how to generate the `projectId` value for WalletConnect in the next section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add support for the Dancebox demo EVM appchain on Tanssi, update `wagmi.ts` as shown above. You will learn how to generate the `projectId` value for WalletConnect in the next section.
```

## Manual Setup 

> If you want to add RainbowKit to an existing React application, you can complete a manual setup. The following sections will guide you through using the manual setup to install and import needed dependencies, configure chain connections to support the Dancebox appchain on Tanssi, and make RainbowKit functionality available to users of your dApp. You will also learn how to specify which chain the **Connect Wallet** button should connect to by default and how to customize the RainbowKit theme to fit your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to add RainbowKit to an existing React application, you can complete a manual setup. The following sections will guide you through using the manual setup to install and import needed dependencies, configure chain connections to support the Dancebox demo EVM appchain on Tanssi, and make RainbowKit functionality available to users of your dApp. You will also learn how to specify which chain the **Connect Wallet** button should connect to by default and how to customize the RainbowKit theme to fit your project.
```

### Checking Prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

The following guide assumes you have:

- An existing dApp built with [React](https://react.dev/){target=\_blank} and you want to use the manual setup to connect to a wallet via RainbowKit

- The [RainbowKit examples repository](https://github.com/rainbow-me/rainbowkit/tree/main/examples){target=\_blank} includes templates for multiple React frameworks
    
 - To follow this guide, visit [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs){target=\_blank} and follow the **Automatic Installation** instructions, selecting Typescript and the App Router options during setup 

> - A wallet that supports custom networks, as we will be adding the Tanssi Dancebox appchain manually

Reviewer 2: no use of "we" or second person

1. Open MetaMask and go to Settings > Networks > Add Network.
2. Input the following information:
   - Network Name: Dancebox
   - RPC URL: `https://fraa-dancebox-3001-rpc.a.dancebox.tanssi.network`
   - Chain ID: 5678
   - Currency Symbol: TANGO
   - Block Explorer URL: `https://fra-dancebox-3001-bs.a.dancebox.tanssi.network/`

For detailed instructions on connecting MetaMask to the Dancebox appchain, refer to the [Tanssi Documentation](https://docs.tanssi.network/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/metamask/#connect-metamask-to-evm-appchain){target=\_blank}.

Once connected, you can safely add your `projectId` to your application:

1. Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory of your project

    ```bash
    touch .env.local
    ```

2. Add your `projectId` to this file

    ```text title=".env.local"
    NEXT_PUBLIC_PROJECT_ID='INSERT_PROJECT_ID'
    ```

3. Locate your `.gitignore` file in this same directory and ensure `.env*.local` is included in the list of files to ignore. This will prevent committing your `projectId` to GitHub

In the next section, you will use this stored `projectId` when setting up the `wagmi` config.

### Connect DApp to MetaMask 

> Now that we have our development environment set up and MetaMask configured for the Dancebox appchain, we'll configure our dApp to connect with MetaMask's wallet using RainbowKit. This process involves several key steps:

Reviewer 2: No use of "we"

```

By setting `initialChain={danceboxChain}`, you ensure that RainbowKit will attempt to connect to the Dancebox appchain first when a user clicks the Connect Wallet button.

### Define Custom Theme Colors

RainbowKit offers three built-in theme functions: `lightTheme`, `darkTheme`, and `midnightTheme`. These theme functions return a theme object, which you can pass into the `RainbowKitProvider` prop `theme` to set custom colors, border radius, font stack, and overlay blur. Update `providers.tsx` with the following code. Be sure to add `darkTheme` to the `@rainbow-me/rainbowkit`import statement to allow your changes to render correctly. After customizing the initial chain and theme, your `providers.tsx` file should look like the following:

RainbowKit offers three built-in theme functions: `lightTheme`, `darkTheme`, and `midnightTheme`. These theme functions return a theme object, which you can pass into the `RainbowKitProvider` prop `theme` to set custom colors, border radius, font stack, and overlay blur. 

```js title="providers.tsx"
--8<-- 'code/builders/toolkit/wallets/rainbowkit/providers2.tsx'
```
This configuration sets a dark theme with custom properties:

> - `accentColor`: The main highlight color. We're using Tanssi's accent color (#189B9B), but you can change this to match your dApp's branding.

Reviewer 2: no use of we

- `accentColorForeground`: The text color used on top of the accent color
- `borderRadius`: Controls the roundness of UI elements. Options are 'none', 'small', 'medium', or 'large'
- `fontStack`: Defines the fonts used. 'system' uses the default system fonts

> - `overlayBlur`: The blur effect applied to the background when modals are open

Reviewer 3: No need to capitalize the first letter here, and typically `-` should be used instead of `:` for list items

1. Select the MetaMask extension in the browser to open the modal
2. Select the three dots in the upper right corner of the MetaMask modal
3. Select **Connected sites**
4. Review the list of sites connected to the wallet
5. Select **Disconnect** for each site that should be disconnected

## Final Result {: #final-result }

The **Connect Wallet** button on the home page should now render in the color specified for `accentColor` during theme customization. After selecting **Connect Wallet**, the same accent color will be displayed in the modal. MetaMask can be chosen, and signing the transaction will authorize the connection. The Tanssi demo EVM appchain will appear as the connected network, along with the {{ networks.dancebox.token_symbol }} token balance, without the need for manual network switching.

![Theme customization on the user modal](/images/builders/toolkit/integrations/wallets/rainbowkit/rainbowkit-3.webp)

This guide includes only a few of the customization options available through RainbowKit. More information about the library's capabilities and options can be found in the [RainbowKit Docs](https://www.rainbowkit.com/docs/introduction){target=\_blank}.

> The complete example code is available in the [rainbow-manual-build-demo repository](https://github.com/papermoonio/rainbowkit-manual-build-demo){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The complete example code is available in the [rainbow-manual-build-demo repository](https://github.com/papermoonio/rainbowkit-manual-build-demo){target=\_blank}.
```
